# SDP-Controlling-Ground-moving-robot-by-using-Camera-put-on-top-of-the-room
## Literature Review
### This literature review examines a senior design project that combined real-time object recognition and robotic control with the Python library OpenCV. According to the article, named “Multiple Color Detection in Real Time using Python OpenCV”, the study demonstrates that using various colors detection in the captured objects with OpenCV library in real time is one of the project’s goals. It also concentrates on implementing mouse events for controlling interfaces. In addition, precise curve drawing using mouse events is included in the project’s goals. This review emphasizes the coordination of robot movements. Furthermore, the topics covered include deliverables, project management schedule, its significance, and ways. The goals and difficulties of the project are also discussed.  
### Computer vision has been growing because of its process of convergence. A key component of the development of this field is user interface design. The role of robotic controls is also worth noting. Collectively, they have opened the door for creative systems when combined. These systems can recognize objects in real time and make real-time interaction feasible. The senior design project that takes this journey is summarized in this literature review. Based on two articles, named “Real time object recognition using OpenCV and NumPy in Python” and “Project in Python – Color Detection using Pandas & OpenCV “, the studies explore that it uses OpenCV, NumPy, Pandas and Matplotlib to create an elaborate system. The project represents a comprehensive approach of robotics that is interactive.  Targets, such as error handling, drawing curve with mouse events, events integration, and real-time object recognition are its main priorities. Many approaches and procedures for color detection are explained that currently exists (Bansal, I. 2023). According to the article, “How to define “lower” and “upper” range of two (or more) different color? – OpenCV Q&A Forum”, Accurate color detection is made easier using the HSV color model. The ability to differentiate between unique objects is thus granted to the system. It utilizes the predetermined color ranges (red and blue colors) to implement this process. It was vital to investigate advanced methods and algorithms to apply mouse event functionalities to enable user interaction and accurate curve drawing. According to the article, named “OpenCV Python – How to draw curves using Mouse Events”, the importance of handling mouse events and curve drawing in improving user engagement and system functionality has been promoted in this research. The use of Matplotlib, another Python library to visualize a solid graphical user interface (GUI) highlights the significance of user-centric design principles. Yacine (n.d.) states that the development encourages intuitive interaction and usability. According to the article, named “Object Detection using OpenCV and Python”, the study encompasses that one of the most aspects of the project is the coherence of direction movements and capturing objects. Establishing smooth communication is considered necessary for this coordination. Furthermore, due to the article, named “Performance Measurement and Improvement Techniques”, error handling mechanism and performance optimization against robustness, which draw upon algorithmic enhancement principles.  
### In conclusion, using OpenCV library, techniques like thresholding of images have boosted the precision and effectiveness of object detection (“Image Thresholding – OpenCV-Python Tutorials beta document”). Furthermore, the article, named “OpenCV: Cascade Identifier”, the construction of cascade classifiers into the OpenCV library has allowed us to build an effective object detection algorithm, thus developing the system performance and reliability. Lastly, OpenCV Documentation (2009) offers that adhering to best practices and methodologies is crucial for developing advanced computer vision applications, ensuring accuracy, efficiency, and reliability during the processes.  
